DOCS-5208: NPM network map queries (#17980)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/network_monitoring/performance/network_page.md

      text: 'Collect your Network Data with the Datadog Agent.'
---

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/main_page_npm2.png" alt="Main page" >}}

## Queries

> To refine your search to traffic between particular endpoints, aggregate and filter your network aggregate connections **with tags**. You can select tags for the client and server using the search bar at the top of the page. The client is where the connection originated, and the server is where the connection was sent to.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To refine your search to traffic between particular endpoints, aggregate and filter your network aggregate connections **with tags**. You can select tags for the client and server using the search bar at the top of the page. The client is where the connection originated, and the server is where the connection terminated.
```

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/network_diagram.png" alt="network diagram showing inbound and outbound requests" style="width:100%;">}}

The following screenshot shows the default view, which aggregates the client and server by the `service` tag. Accordingly, each row in the table represents service-to-service aggregate connections when aggregated over a one hour time period.

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/context_npm2.png" alt="context" style="width:80%;">}}

The next example shows all aggregate connections from IP addresses representing services in region `us-east-1` to availability zones:

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/flow_table_region_az2.png" alt="Aggregate connection table filtered" style="width:80%;">}}

You can set the timeframe over which traffic is aggregated using the time selector at the top right of the page:

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/npm_timeframe.png" alt="Time frame NPM" style="width:30%;">}}

> Tags from Datadog integrations or Unified Service Tagging can be used for aggregating and filtering automatically. See [custom facets](#custom-facets), below, for other tags. You can also select "Auto-grouped traffic" to aggregate on, using a combination of `service`, `kube_service`, `short_image`, `container_name`, and other common tags.

Reviewer: The grammar in the second sentence is a bit off:

```suggestion
Tags from Datadog integrations or Unified Service Tagging can be used for aggregating and filtering automatically. See [custom facets](#custom-facets), below, for other tags. You can also select "Auto-grouped traffic" to see traffic bucketed into a several commonly used tags  such as `service`, `kube_service`, `short_image`, and `container_name`.
```

> Tags from Datadog integrations or Unified Service Tagging can be used for aggregating and filtering automatically. See [custom facets](#custom-facets), below, for other tags. You can also select "Auto-grouped traffic" to see traffic bucketed into a several commonly used tags  such as `service`, `kube_service`, `short_image`, and `container_name`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Tags from Datadog integrations or Unified Service Tagging can be used for aggregating and filtering automatically. See [custom facets](#custom-facets), below, for other tags. You can also select "Auto-grouped traffic" to see traffic bucketed into several commonly used tags such as `service`, `kube_service`, `short_image`, and `container_name`.
```

### Wildcard search
To perform a multi-character wildcard search, use the `*` symbol as follows:

- `client_service:web*` matches all client services that start with web
- `client_service:*web` matches all client services that end with web
- `client_service:*web*` matches all client services that contain the string web

> Wildcard searches work within facets with this syntax. This query returns all the client services that end with the string mongo:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wildcard searches work within facets with this syntax. This query returns all the client services that end with the string "mongo":
```

`client_service:*mongo`

To learn more, see the [search syntax][1] documentation.

### Group by

> Groups allow you to filter your data by a given tag's value. For example, if you select a grouping such as **host**, results are grouped by individual hosts. You can also choose to not group by a tag using the **Ungrouped traffic** option. Additionally, you may have large chunks of data that are not tagged by the grouping you're interested in. In these situations, you can use **Auto-grouped traffic** to group data by whichever tags are available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Groups allow you to group your data by a given tag's value. For example, if you select a grouping such as **host**, results are grouped by individual hosts. You can also choose to view all your data in a single group using the **Ungrouped traffic** option. Additionally, you may have large chunks of data that are not tagged by the grouping you're interested in. In these situations, you can use **Auto-grouped traffic** to group data by whichever tags are available.
```

Reviewer 2: Alternately, if you want to avoid repeating the word "group," the first line can be: "Groups allow you to aggregate your data..."

> TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that guarantees in-order delivery of packets. The following TCP metrics are available:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TCP is a connection-oriented protocol that guarantees in-order delivery of packets. The following TCP metrics are available: All metrics are instrumented from the perspective of the `client` side of the connection when available, or the server if not.
```

| Metric                      | Description                                                                                                                              |
|-----------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **TCP Retransmits**         | TCP Retransmits represent detected failures that are retransmitted to ensure delivery. Measured in count of retransmits from the client. |

> | **TCP Latency**             | Measured as TCP smoothed round-trip time, that is the time between a TCP frame being sent and acknowledged.                              |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **TCP Latency**             | Measured as TCP smoothed round-trip time, that is, the time between a TCP frame being sent and acknowledged.                              |
```

{{< img src="network_performance_monitoring/network_page/domain_aggregation2.png" alt="Domain aggregation" >}}

**Note**: DNS resolution is supported for hosts where the system probe is running on the root network namespace, which is usually caused by running the system-probe in a container without using the host network.

### Network Address Translation (NAT)

NAT is a tool used by Kubernetes and other systems to route traffic between containers. When investigating a specific dependency (for example, service to service), you can use the presence or absence of pre-NAT IPs to distinguish between Kubernetes-native services, which do their own routing, and services that rely on external clients for routing. This feature does not currently include resolution of NAT gateways.

> To view pre-NAT and post-NAT IPs, use the _Show pre-NAT IPs_ toggle in the table settings. When this setting is toggled off, IPs shown in the Client IP and Server IP columns are by default post-NAT IPs. In cases where you have multiple pre-NAT IPs for one post-NAT IP, the top 5 most common pre-NAT IPs will be displayed. `pre_nat.ip` is a tag like any other in the product, so you can use it to aggregate and filter traffic.

Reviewer: We're inconsistently capitalizing server/client here

> To view pre-NAT and post-NAT IPs, use the _Show pre-NAT IPs_ toggle in the table settings. When this setting is toggled off, IPs shown in the Client IP and Server IP columns are by default post-NAT IPs. In cases where you have multiple pre-NAT IPs for one post-NAT IP, the top 5 most common pre-NAT IPs will be displayed. `pre_nat.ip` is a tag like any other in the product, so you can use it to aggregate and filter traffic.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view pre-NAT and post-NAT IPs, use the **Show pre-NAT IPs** toggle in the table settings. When this setting is toggled off, IPs shown in the **Client IP** and **Server IP** columns are by default post-NAT IPs. In cases where you have multiple pre-NAT IPs for one post-NAT IP, the top 5 most common pre-NAT IPs are displayed. `pre_nat.ip` is a tag like any other in the product, so you can use it to aggregate and filter traffic.
```

### Unresolved traffic

Unresolved client and server tags are marked as `N/A`. A traffic client or server endpoint may be unresolved because:

* The host or container client or server IPs are not tagged with the client or server tags used for traffic aggregation.
* The endpoint is outside of your private network, and accordingly is not tagged by the Datadog Agent.
* The endpoint is a firewall, service mesh or other entity where a Datadog Agent cannot be installed.

> Use the _Show N/A (Unresolved Traffic)_ toggle in the upper right corner of the data table to filter out aggregate connections with unresolved (`N/A`) clients or servers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the **Show N/A (Unresolved Traffic)** toggle in the upper right corner of the data table to filter out aggregate connections with unresolved (`N/A`) clients or servers.
```
